W-12401927-Update-maven-preferences-references-CP (#474)
mulesoft/docs-studio: modules/ROOT/pages/maven-preferences-reference.adoc

include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> In Studio, you can personalize your preferences when working with Maven. Studio reads the `settings.xml` file, which details the configurations Maven uses during its operation. The `settings.xml` file enables you to tailor the behavior of the build process for all the projects on your system. With the `settings.xml` file, you can configure:

Reviewer: >  Studio reads the `settings.xml` file, ...

Maybe I will add a clarification that this is a Maven (and not Studio) file... something like:

```
Studio reads the Maven `settings.xml` file, ..
```

Author: Great catch! Thanks!

> In Studio, you can personalize your preferences when working with Maven. Studio relies on the *settings.xml* file, which details the configurations Maven uses during its operation. The *settings.xml* file lets you tailor the behavior of the build process, not just for a specific project but also for all the projects on your system. With the *settings.xml* file, you can configure:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Studio, you can personalize your preferences when working with Maven. Studio reads the `settings.xml` file, which details the configurations Maven uses during its operation. The `settings.xml` file enables you to tailor the behavior of the build process for all the projects on your system. With the `settings.xml` file, you can configure:
```

Author: Thanks!

* Dependency and plugin repositories
* Proxy servers
* Authentication
* Plugins

> More information about https://maven.apache.org/settings.html[Maven setting references^]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See https://maven.apache.org/settings.html[Maven setting references^] for additional information. 
```

Author: Thanks!

> To configure Maven setting preferences, go to *Anypoint Studio > Settings…* and click *Maven*.

Reviewer: I would change this instruction... this is Mac specific directions.

Author: Thanks for the clarification!

> More information about configuration of MuleSoft repositories at https://docs.mulesoft.com/studio/latest/maven-preferences-reference[Maven Reference documentation].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See https://docs.mulesoft.com/studio/latest/maven-preferences-reference[Maven Reference] for additional information about configuring MuleSoft repositories.
```

Author: Thanks!

image::maven-preferences-reference.png["*Maven Preferences Reference* window accessed from the *Settings...* option, from the *Anypoint Studio* menu."]

[%header,%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Preference | Description | Default Value
| Display runtime version not available warnings

> | When enabled, it warns you when the runtime version configured in your pom.xml file is different from the one configured in your project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| When enabled, it warns you when the runtime version configured in your `pom.xml` file is different from the one configured in your project.
```

Author: Thanks!

include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

In Studio, you can personalize your preferences when working with Maven. Studio reads the Maven `settings.xml` file, which details the configurations Maven uses during its operation. The `settings.xml` file enables you to tailor the behavior of the build process for all the projects on your system. With the `settings.xml` file, you can configure:

* Dependency and plugin repositories
* Proxy servers
* Authentication
* Plugins

See https://maven.apache.org/settings.html[Maven setting references^] for additional information. 

To configure Maven setting preferences:

* In macOS, go to *Anypoint Studio* > *Settings…*.

> * In Windows, go to *Anypoint Studio* > *Preferences*.

Reviewer: I would get ride of this and provide general guidance... users should know how to open the Studio preferences dialog.

Otherwise, this is for Eclipse Linux... it is the same for Windows... and because it is something of the O.S. it is the same for Studio.
![image](https://github.com/mulesoft/docs-studio/assets/1738654/cbdf785e-a121-421c-9b3d-ab26a4e24c55)

Author: OK! I'll find a workaround for this. Thanks!

| Empty

| Override settings security path

> | When selected, this option overrides Maven default settings_security.xml path. +

Reviewer: put settings_security.xml in backticks to render it as the rest of the filenames: `settings_security.xml`

Author: Great catch! Thanks!

> Selecting this option requires you to define your custom path to your settings_security.xml file in the *Path to settings_security.xml* field.

Reviewer: backticks around the first settings_security.xml

Author: Thanks!

| Disabled

| Override Maven local repository location

> | When selected, this option overrides Maven default local repository location. +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| When selected, this option overrides Maven's default local repository location. +
```

Author: According to our style guide, we should not make proper names (such as Maven) possessive.

| Empty

| Base command line for builds
| The Maven command to execute every time you build or run a Mule project in your local machine.
| mvn clean package -nsu -DskipMunitTests

|===

== Configure Global Settings

> Studio manages the servers used in the global settings and you can configure Studio to use an external Maven installation. By doing so, Studio automatically detects and populates the IDs from the *settings.xml* file stored in *${maven.installation.home}/conf/settings.xml*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Studio manages the servers used in the global settings and you can configure Studio to use an external Maven installation. By doing so, Studio automatically detects and populates the IDs from the `settings.xml` file stored in `${maven.installation.home}/conf/settings.xml`.
```

Author: Thanks!

image::maven-global-settings.png[“*Global Settings* option highlighted in the Studio setting preferences window.”]

> If there is no file on this path, you can create a new *settings.xml* file in other location:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If there is no file on this path, you can create a new `settings.xml` file in another location:
```

Author: Thanks!

. Select *Override global settings path*.
. Click *Browse*.

> . Select your *settings.xml* file and click *Open*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Select your `settings.xml` file and click *Open*.
```

Author: Thanks!

+ The IDs are listed.
. Click *Apply and Close*.

> == Configure Update Policies

Reviewer: I know that this section appears in the same position as it is in the menu (which is automatically sorted alphabetically), but logically I will move it after the `Configure User Settings`.... so the order of sections is more logical:
1. Configure Global Settings
2. Configure User Settings
3. Configure Update Policies

Author: Great point! 
We try to make it easier for the reader to find what they are looking for, that's why we list elements in the order they appear. Thanks for your comment anyways!

You can configure Maven update policies depending on your needs.

image::maven-update-policies.png[“*Update Policies* option highlighted in the Studio setting preferences window.”]

> More information about https://maven.apache.org/settings.html#repositories[Update Policies^] in Maven

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See https://maven.apache.org/settings.html#repositories[Update Policies^] for additional information.
```

Author: Thanks!

> See https://maven.apache.org/settings.html#repositories[Update Policies^] for additional information.

Reviewer: the text of the link it is not found in the linked page.... it is really the item `updatePolicy` on that section.

Author: I got your point -I think- Thanks!

== Configure User Settings

> Studio manages the servers for downloading dependencies or plugins and defines the credentials of such servers if needed. It automatically detects and populates the IDs from the *settings.xml* file located in *${user.home}/.m2/settings.xml*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Studio manages the servers for downloading dependencies or plugins, defines the credentials of such servers when needed, and automatically detects and populates the IDs from the `settings.xml` file located in `${user.home}/.m2/settings.xml`.
```

Author: Thanks!

image::maven-user-settings.png[“*User Settings* option highlighted in the Studio setting preferences window.”]

> If there is no file on this path, you can create a new *settings.xml* file in other location:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If there is no file on this path, you can create a new `settings.xml` file in another location:
```

Author: Thanks!

. Select *Override user settings path*.
. Click *Browse*.

> . Select your *settings.xml* file and click *Open*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Select your `settings.xml` file and click *Open*.
```

Author: Thanks!

+ The IDs are listed.
. Click *Apply and Close*.

=== Add a Server

> You can add a new server to your *settings.xml* file: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To add a new server to your `settings.xml` file: 
```

Author: Thanks!

. In the *User Settings* window, click *Add*.

> . Enter the server Id and, your username and password.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Enter the server ID and your username and password.
```

Author: Great catch on the "ID"! Thanks!
Regarding the comma, I think it is needed to avoid misunderstandings in the grammar structure of the sentence.
The reader should enter two blocks of information, and the second block has two items, therefore the comma is needed:
"Enter (1) the server ID and, (2) your (2.1) username and (2.2) password".

. Click *OK*.

image::maven-add-new-server.png[“*Add server* option highlighted in the Studio setting preferences window.”]

== See Also

> * xref:add-modules-in-studio-to.adoc[]

Reviewer: Will it get the title of the referenced .adoc as link text?

Author: Yes! The build automagically gets the title name and fills the emptiness hahhaa
Thanks!
